---
title: PS300 - 9/5/17
notebook: School
tags: 1school, 2college, 2ps300 
---

# PS 300 - Comparative Politics
> 9/5/17

## Notes
**Question: How can we answer questions in comparative politics?** 

**Types of case selection systems:** 
* Most similar system design
* Most different system design

### Problems in Studying Comparative Politics
* Too much to know (too few cases, too many variables)
* What causes what? (lot of independent variables)
* What do things mean? / traveling concepts
  - Some concepts are different in different countries, like Speaker of the House in the U.S. (not called that anywhere else in the world)
* **Selection bias:** the cases we choose and the conclusions we draw (just choosing WEIRD countries) 

---

## How do we study politics?
**What types of questions do we ask in political science?** 

* **Normative** - 'ought' questions (political scientists don't focus on this, subjective)
  - Should the gov.t provide healthcare to its people?
* **Positive** - 'is' questions (objective, our focus)   
  - Positivist, can use science and observations
  - Is voter turnout higher when we have proportional representation?

* **Scientific inquiry/method:** the process by which scientists propose explanations based on evidence
* **Independent variable:** things which influence the dependent variable (like age, income)
* **Dependent variable:** thing you are measuring, depending on independent variables (voter turnout)
* How are these variables related?
  - Positive vs negative correlations
  - Older, more turnout, or older, less turnout
* Correlation, Not Causation
* **Hypothesis aka theory:** educated guess which proposes how an independent variable affects a dependent variable (what causes what)
  - Can have positive and negative relationships (relationships!)
  - Falsifiable 
  - Testable
  - Can have alternative rival hypotheses
  - Null hypotheses, there is no relationship between independent and dependent variable
  - For (if then statements, then usually a hypothesis)
  - Shouldn't have specific numbers or percentage
  
### Examples
1. If political parties nominate their candidates internally, then they're more likely to win the elction - Hypothesis
2. 75% of Latin American countries have presidents - Statement
3. People tend to vote the same way that their parents do - Hypothesis
4. As people age, they become more conservative - Hypothesis
5. Capitalism is the root of all evil - Statement (can't be tested so statement)
6. An apple a day keeps the doctor away - Hypothesis (can be phrased better to say eating fruit improves your health)
7. Early to bed, early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy and wise - Hypothesis 

## Induction vs. Deduction
* **Deduction:** top-down, i.e. theory to observations. General conclusion to a specific detail.
* **Induction:** bottom-up, i.e. observations to theory. Specific detail to a general conclusion.

## Necessary vs. Sufficient Conditions
* **Necessary conditions:** must be present for something to occur
* **Sufficient conditions:** by themselves are enough for the event to occur
* Conditions
  - Necessary and sufficient
  - Necessary but not sufficient
  - Sufficient but not necessary
  - Neither necessary nor sufficient
* Breathing is necessary but not sufficient (need to drink water)

### Logical Fallacies

**Question: Why care about scientific inquiry?** 

* Important for systematic analysis of observations
* Formalizes how we see the world and its relationships
* Helps us to examine our own political assumptions




